---
title: Sexuality Education
permalink: /cce/Sexuality-Education/
description: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<h3><strong>MOE SEXUALITY EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS</strong></h3><ol><li><p>Sexuality Education (SEd) in schools aims to enable students to understand the physiological, social and emotional changes they experience as they mature, develop healthy and rewarding relationships with others, including those with members of the opposite sex, and make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters. SEd is premised on the importance of the family as the basic unit of society. This means encouraging healthy, heterosexual marriages and stable nuclear family units with extended family support. The teaching and learning of SEd is based on respect for the values and beliefs of the different ethnic and religious communities in Singapore on sexuality issues.</p><p></p></li><li><p>The <strong>Goals</strong> of Sexuality Education are to:</p><p></p><p>(a) Support students in managing their physiological, social and emotional changes as they grow up and develop safe and healthy relationships.</p><p>(b) Guide students to make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters.</p><p>(c) Help students develop a moral compass and respect for themselves and others by having positive mainstream values and attitudes about sexuality that are premised on the family as the basic unit of society.</p><p></p></li><li><p>The <strong>Key Messages</strong> of Sexuality Education are:</p><p></p><p>(a) Love and respect yourself as you love and respect others;</p><p>(b) Build positive relationships based on love and respect (which are the foundation for strong families);</p><p>(c) Make responsible decisions for yourself, your family and society; and</p><p>(d) Abstinence before marriage is the best protection against STIs/HIV and unintended pregnancies. Casual sex can harm and hurt you and your loved ones.</p><p></p><p>You may click <a href="https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> for more information on MOE Sexuality Education.</p></li></ol><hr><h4><strong>OVERVIEW OF PASIR RIS SECONDARY SCHOOL’S SEXUALITY EDUCATION PROGRAMME FOR 2024</strong></h4><ol start="4" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Sexuality Education is delivered in a holistic manner through the school curriculum. The content for Sexuality Education is grouped into five main themes: Human Development, Interpersonal Relationships, Sexual Health, Sexual Behaviour, and, Culture, Society and Law. You may click <a href="https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education-scope" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> for more information on the scope of Sexuality Education in the school curriculum.</p><p></p></li><li><p>The subjects that incorporate topics on sexuality include:</p><p>a. Science</p><p>b. Character and Citizenship Education (CCE)</p></li></ol><h4><strong>Sexuality Education Lessons:</strong></h4><ol start="6"><li><p>The values and attitudes of our youth towards sexuality are increasingly shaped by their peers, exposure to the media, popular culture and the internet. Adolescence is a complex stage in life as the adolescent attempts to find his/her own identity and often struggles with new social relationships. The period of middle adolescence (generally from 15 – 17 years old) can be a turbulent period for adolescents. The gap between physical and emotional/cognitive maturity may result in a tendency to act on impulse, experiment with various activities (including sexual activities), sometimes without understanding the unpleasant consequences that may arise from such experimentation. The need for peer acceptance can be overwhelmingly strong and hinder one’s ability to act responsibly. Given the pressures faced by the middle adolescent from within themselves and from peers, it is important to build a strong sense of self-worth, personal conviction and an understanding of the possible consequences of sexual behaviour.</p><p></p></li><li><p>Through the Sexuality Education lessons, secondary students will have the opportunity to develop a positive self-esteem, develop their character, and expand their understanding and repertoire of skills to deal with various issues related to sexuality, which are of prime concern at this age.</p></li></ol><h4><strong>At Pasir Ris Secondary School, the following Sexuality Education lessons will be taught in <u>2024</u>:</strong></h4><p><strong>2024 Sexuality Education Lessons in CCE 2021</strong></p><h4><strong>SECONDARY 1</strong></h4><p></p><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td></tr></tbody></table><h4><strong>SECONDARY 2</strong></h4><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><h4><strong>SECONDARY 3</strong></h4><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Unit</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Title</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Overview</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Objectives</strong></p><p>At the end of the lesson, students will be able to:</p><p></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period</strong></p><p><strong>(e.g.Term 1 Week 2)</strong></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Love Yourself, Love Others</p><p>Lesson 1A</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on dating respectfully in healthy relationships. Students will learn about self-esteem, their sources of influence (e.g. friends’ perception) on self-esteem, the impact of one’s self-esteem on our mental well-being as well as relationships with others. Students will also learn how emotional reactions can affect relationships positively or negatively. Students will also learn that maturity and readiness are important when entering into a dating relationship.&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>know that self-perception and identity have an impact on our self-esteem and how we interact with others and the choices we make, both online and offlin</p></li><li><p>understand that expectations of oneself and others may differ and can affect one’s emotions, thoughts and behaviours</p></li><li><p>recognise what healthy dating relationships involve and know that readiness is important when entering into a dating relationship</p></li></ul></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 5</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mending a Broken Heart Lesson 1B (60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Students will learn how to manage their emotions if they were to face a breakup and know that relationship building involves person emotions and vulnerabilities, and changes and challenges. Students will also learn that a decision to end a relationship will have consequences on oneself and others, and that grief and loss due to rejections and broken relationships is normal and that one can recover from the experience. They will learn that there are healthy ways of coping with breakdowns in relationships and that family and friends are important pillars of support.</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>•	know that relationship-building involves personal emotions and vulnerabilities, and changes and challenges </p><p>•	know that a decision to end a relationship will have consequences on oneself and others</p><p>•	know that grief and loss due to rejections and broken relationships is normal and one can recover from the experience </p><p>•	know there are healthy ways of coping with broken relationships, and family and friends are important pillars of support </p><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 6</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>When Respect Takes Centre Stage Lesson 2 (60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson aims to help students think critically and make informed decisions in the contexts of sexting and voyeurism, and encourages students to exert a positive influence as a respectful online user. It will also deepen students’ convictions about making moral decisions by taking into consideration the impact of their decisions and actions on their well-being and safety, their loved ones, and the community. Students learn that they have a right and responsibility to be safe and protect their personal space and body. They also learn that sexting, voyeurism and other related sexual offences are never justifiable and they can seek help in times of need.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>recognise the importance of being informed of social and moral issues of the day and the need to reflect on these issues, and weigh them against our own moral standpoints as we form our perspectives about them</p></li><li><p>understand that we strengthen our character when we commit to sound values-based viewpoints (e.g. respect for life) and decisions, and speak and act in alignment with our beliefs</p></li></ul></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 8</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td></tr></tbody></table><h4><strong>SECONDARY 4</strong></h4><p></p><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>UNIT</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Title</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Overview</strong></p></th><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Objectives </strong>At the end of the lesson, students will be able to:</p></td><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Time Period <strong>(e.g.Term 1 Week 2)</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Levelling the Ground Lesson 1 (60 mins)</p><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson aims to help students think critically about gender stereotypes that exist in our society in the contexts of career and family (e.g. males typically perceived as main breadwinners and females typically perceived as main caregivers in the family), and the impact of these stereotypes on individuals. Students will learn to be aware of possible gender stereotypes that may affect one’s family and future decisions. They will also learn to reframe their perspectives and not judge others based on their own or others’ values and principles, with regard to gender stereotypes.</p></td><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>When Love Hurts Lesson 2 (60 mins)</strong></p><p></p></td><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></th></tr></tbody></table><h4><strong>SECONDARY 5</strong></h4><p></p><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>UNIT</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Title</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Overview</strong></p></th><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Objectives</strong></p><p>At the end of the lesson, students will be able to:</p></td><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Time Period <strong>(e.g.Term 1 Week 2)</strong></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This is Where I Draw the Line (60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>In this lesson, students will understand that different individuals have different emotional and physical boundaries. This lesson highlights the need to respect the boundaries of others and reinforces the importance of showing respect to the opposite sex by using appropriate words and actions. Students will examine personal boundaries from different perspectives and learn the importance of making sound values-based decisions and acting in consideration of the well-being of themselves and others.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>understand that we strengthen our character when we commit to sound values-based viewpoints (e.g. respect for life) and decisions, and speak and act in alignment with our beliefs</p></li></ul></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 5</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h2><strong>eTeens Programme:</strong></h2><ol start="8" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>eTeens is a programme developed by Health Promotion Board, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, to provide Secondary 3 students with accurate information on STIs, HIV and protection from a health perspective. eTeens is conducted in two segments – a mass talk segment and a classroom-based programme. The desired outcome of the eTeens programme is that students are empowered to make wise, informed and sensible decisions.</p><p></p></li><li><p>Students are taught skills such as decision-making, assertiveness and negotiation to say “no” to sex and negative peer pressure. They also learn that the impact of STIs/HIV extends beyond themselves and involves their family, and the importance of responsible decision-making and seeking help. Abstinence and upholding family values are the key messages.</p></li></ol><h4><strong>At Pasir Ris Secondary School, the eTeens programme will be implemented as follows in 2024:</strong></h4><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Topics/Lessons</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Programme Learning Objectives</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period (e.g. Term 3 Week 9)</strong></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mass Talk by HPB appointed vendor</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Raise awareness and provide knowledge on:</p></li></ul><p>a)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Infectious diseases (STIs and HIV): what it is, how it spreads, how to prevent infection mainly through ABC (abstinence, being faithful, correct, and consistent condom use).</p><p>Managing relationships and risky situations in a healthy way.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 3 Week 8</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Classroom-based Lesson</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Learn to negotiate their way out of a risky situation by applying skills of assertiveness and responsible decision-making</p></li></ul></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 3 Week 8</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h5><strong>INFORMATION FOR PARENTS</strong></h5><ol start="10" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Parents may opt their children out of the Sexuality Education lessons, eTeens and/or supplementary sexuality education programmes by MOE-approved external providers.</p></li><li><p>Parents who wish to opt their children out of the Sexuality Education lessons need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be communicated to parents at the start of the year and is also downloadable <a href="https://form.gov.sg/65a0ab97ba213b001281c546" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>. The completed form is to be submitted by 26/01/2024.</p></li><li><p>Parents who wish to opt their children out of the eTeens programme need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be communicated to parents at the start of the year and is also downloadable <a href="https://form.gov.sg/63d74e19d4e11c0012f94cbf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>. The completed form is to be submitted by 26/01/2024.</p></li><li><p>Parents can contact the school at 6501 0800 or email us at prss@moe.edu.sg for discussion or to seek clarification about the school’s Sexuality Education programme.</p></li></ol><p></p>